now already hello and welcome to the
ipfs All Hands call it's March the 30th
it's a beautiful no it's not it's cloudy
outside but we're gonna persist anyway
today is the lightening talk day which
means if you've never heard lightning
talks before where have you been
lightning talks about the best talks
ever because you get a small snippet of
information usually fired at you quite
rapidly over the duration of five
minutes just five five minutes so you
guys who are presenting today I'll give
you a warning in the chat after four
minutes or so and then after five
minutes I will kick you out of the room
no not really I can probably just say
hey it's been five minutes you should
probably think about stalling now so
okay today at the moment we have we're
gonna try and get through Carson who's
gonna talk about chairs fred's we've got
Matt talking about pinata news
Dietrich's gonna talk to us about f
Denver and I'm gonna talk to you
something out something called the idea
first browser sandbox if we have time if
anyone else has a lightning talk that
they'd like to give he's editor list if
we don't get it today get to it today
then we do lightning talks every few
weeks or so so we can add you to that
slot instead so no no worries on there
and cool would this is always fun
I'm I got permission to do recording
with someone like to take notes today
you
come on time for the hand up someone
write your name in the note taker sloth
I say you just pick a face okay all
right
tough times man I pick Lydell face you
know take it thank you
all right sweet okay without further ado
because I know I'm just talking rubbish
let's go on and if it's okay with you
Carson would you like to go first and do
your five minutes the lightning talk
sure yep take it all right thank you all
right let me just I'm gonna share my
screen because I do have a couple of but
I'm getting a bunch of slack messages
from the team saying good luck on your
talk so I'm just going to give them for
a second here okay okay how's that look
everybody see that big pink letters okay
hi thanks everybody for having me here
it's been a while since I was at one of
these um community calls and I think I
should probably start doing that again
but anyway thanks for having me I just
wanted to talk really quickly about
something that we have just sort of
silently released called Jay s threads
Jay s threads is a protocol and event
source database for decentralized user
siloed data
it's our JavaScript implementation of a
project that we have been working on for
a while now so some quick background on
that some of you might remember textile
we release something called photos and
photos was backed by essentially a
protocol for exchanging updates between
a set of peers and we learned a lot in
that experiment and we literally went
back to the drawing board wrote a white
paper this is it right here you can
check it out at that short link there
went right back to the drawing board and
started from scratch and we started
building this protocol an event source
database
on top of IP FS and p2p an IP LD and all
of the great projects that fall under
the banner of ipfs and our first
implementation was a reference
implementation which is in go
second implementation which we just sort
of stealthily released is typescript
fully typed typescript and I'm really
really excited about it for a bunch of
reasons so I'm just gonna give you a
high-level overview of what is threads
and then hopefully that will tickle your
fancy enough to go check it out on
github etc so threads roughly speaking
is a document store and a datastore
compliant key value store it has a
MongoDB like interface so it just feels
like you're working with a local
database it embraces offline first and
remote sync from the get-go so if you
add something to the database and you're
not connected to any other peers it'll
feel like you've just added something to
a database and the next time you
actually have a connection it will fire
that stuff off in the background
textiles developed user and developer
authentication so you can actually do
authentication database stuff on a cloud
if you want or you can run it locally or
you can run your own instance to keep it
fully decentralized you have multiple
transport options so does pub/sub it
does direct peer-to-peer it does pretty
much any form of transport you can think
of that lib p2p supports which means
that you've got a bunch of different
options for how your data actually gets
to connected peers even IP LD soon
actually it has cryptographic key based
access control and that's pretty nuanced
access control so you can have things
like readers and writers and followers
and all this good stuff and all that
stuff is backed by sort of best-in-class
encryption and wrapped up in Nice IP LD
objects so that you can pass them along
and your users will know how to read it
I don't see the chat so if I need to
stop maybe just someone wave their hands
vigorously like this and I will
hopefully see that we also have
configurable codecs
so if you have a very specific use case
where you need like a CR DT to make sure
that your peers are always going to be
able to resolve any conflicts then you
can plug in custom CR DTS
by default we have a couple simple ones
including some operational transport
ones so you can do things like you know
JSON put events and stuff like that and
all the peers will receive the same
types of events in the same order you
can do like text-based handling and all
sorts of other pluggable codecs so that
stuff's all good to go and I'd love for
people to start playing with it
here's stuff that I'm working on right
now that we will get released over the
next few spreads this print I'm actually
focused on documentation so don't judge
me if you go there today judge me when
you go there next week
but we'll have pub/sub only transport
coming up soon for people who want
really lightweight decentralized MongoDB
database will be adding indexing which
stack codes already ready to go just
hasn't been merged a bunch of minimal
config pinning setups so textile can pin
your stuff you can use pinata to pin
your stuff you can ask your friend to
pin your stuff whatever you want and
very soon we're going to have a bunch of
large data options so that you can
actually put large data in your document
stores so there you go
I think I'm out of time so come build
stuff with us go check out textile i/o
jeaious
- threads on github and then you can
check out our reference implementation
and it's all backed by a white paper
that is rendered in latex so you know
it's sciency thanks very much
yeah nice we could probably do one quick
question yeah cool looks like I have one
minute if no questions the one slide I
did skip which was the one that said
network of trustless peers so one
feature we added two threads that we
learned about in our first iteration was
by having sort of a hierarchy of keys
you can actually give out a service key
to say a service provider and they can
backup the data without actually knowing
what the contents of that data looks
like so you get this pretty cool
situation where you can actually have a
like third party backing up your
database without knowing what your
database is full of so that's a pretty
nice feature cool thank you
all right so would it be possible to
integrate with already be so angry yeah
good question we've been thinking about
this a bunch so ultimately it's it's
like a alternative to orbit TB does a
bunch of things that are beneath be
doesn't in orbit TB has things that it
doesn't do but I think given that we do
also support pub/sub you could also
intercept pub/sub messages that were
intended for an orbit DB instance and
write a codec to handle those so the
answer I think is is a is a pretty
positive yes Thanks all right cool next
up we mat with pinata regions and
replications sorry
yeah sure
awesome no no
you guys did you see slacker did you see
pinata there
I still pinata it okay okay sorry I
panicked
I only saw your bank account numbers and
passwords si some freaked me out here a
second I didn't say I didn't still
scares me all right hmm here's what we
got
I guess so uh a few weeks ago this is no
project we've been working on for quite
a while early on we were looking for
more ways to horizontally scale out
pinata more and a lot of our users had
been asking for more of options for
speed redundancy you know how do I get
my contents in multiple parts of the
world how do I manage all of that and so
this has been many months in the making
but this is what we call regions and
replications so basically what this
allows you to do is in your content
multiple times in multiple regions the
simple way to do it this is on the test
server by the way as so many accounts
information is fake okay so no don't
turn scam our main servers but it comes
down to this thing we call a pin policy
and right now we're letting users panic
content in both Germany and then New
York City this is kind of what your
account settings will be by default and
you say hey I wanted pin once in
Frankfurt and once in New York City or I
can set it up to twice in New York City
as maybe I have a lot more users there
that are touching data so you can set
that as your default account level one
now you can also send in custom and
policy for a unique upload via the API
if you want to as well um so let's say
like we want to upload a file here
we'll set it up there and then you'll
notice here it kinda it'll take you can
look at your PIN list and say hey this
is where we want it to be and here's the
process of it and right now we said okay
the first place it went to New York City
that's because I'm from the United
States and our servers are kind of all
latency balanced right now that part of
the new update so we'll go to the server
that's closest to you it'll send it to
the region that's closest to you or if
you've decided to pin it there but if we
update it we should notice that it
replicated all behind the scenes using
swap and all the fun stuff we have all
these multi microserver see things going
on but yeah that's let's say we changed
our minds now we wanted zero times in
New York City turns out nobody lives
there
we can do that and now it's still in
Frankfurt it's been deleted off the New
York City servers that's the quick quick
and dirty I realized I probably only
took a few few seconds or minutes but if
anybody has any questions I'd be happy
to answer them
nice that's pretty cool I have a quick
question
yeah when you say to - in New York City
does that mean like - ipfs nodes that
are running in New York yep yeah yeah
yep yep so um so we have like all of our
all of our data by default you know is a
racial coded like multi server racks
setup so the data is not going to die
but we wanted to give people the ability
to say okay I want multiple nodes
announcing this contents in specific
regions so it kind of gives you the
ability to fine-tune your CDN if you
will so each each replication that's
gonna be you know a node so this one
would have three different nodes one in
New York City and then two and Frankfurt
announcing the content and then if
people want to as well we can also set
up custom regions for them so then in
then give their accounts permission to
it so let's say that you're from India
we could set up one kind of an Eastern
Asian or like Bangladesh and then you
know that would give your account access
to that and then you would have that is
an option to replicate your content in
as well it's kind of shoes where where
things are going on a more fine-tuned
basis
you
nice and yes Andrews asking is there any
plans for other regions evident France
and New York yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah
yes you said where he won't basically
say yeah yeah it's specially wherever
you want and the cool thing what we can
do with this now is we can do private
networking if you want we can do cross
clouds so let's say you want a one in
GCP you won't want to have your AWS
digitalocean you can run you know four
different cloud providers if he wants
and we can set that up for you so that
your data is pretty much never going to
be taken offline so a lot of flexibility
there Britta code seems very simple and
for it on the front end but we've kind
of basically recreated our own version
of ipfs clustered I talked with Hector a
lot on this and learned a lot of cool
things for him so major props to Hector
if he's on this call
you know because Hector being the
cluster lead has been yes yes yes first
or ma'am yeah cool all right thank you
very much Matt that was awesome that's
really cool good news and sometimes if
you'd like to stop sharing absolutely
okay so next up we have Dietrich and
he's gonna talk to us a little bit about
air if Denver
everybody ace ah something from someone
about someone who looks familiar about
so I what seems like several years ago
in a planet far far away there was
actually a very large a 3m Developers
Conference in Colorado in Denver before
that conference however was a pretty
amazing event called the distance wise
networks in it this was basically a I
profess and friends and interested
parties day a bunch of people were
building stuff on top of IP fess doing
talks about decentralized networks using
it building ipfs and kind of showing off
to the community there that was there
for the conference we're specifically
interested in the decent rise and
distributed networks aspect of this
overall web three stack be able to dive
deeper a place where they can talk about
challenges for building for shipping
products supplement a lot of the people
here on this meeting join us for this
special event and you might see some
familiar faces just talk to you moments
ago but there's between 40 and 80 people
at different points in time during the
day preceding member event and it was
fantastical to get a bunch of quality
time with some of our favorite projects
and folks then this is a picture of the
event in that that dude off to the left
or right depending on how you're looking
at this this Dan shields who was dessert
special things as a massive mover and
shaker somebody who got this community
together in a really important way for a
really special event very cool thank you
the main event was the next few days
viii denver f-number however you dip it
if you're from the UK
how do you pronounce it this is over
2000 people building things on top of
the etherium stack a lot of people using
IP FS I we had a table there with the IP
fest open source project represented
well by
textile three-box and bunch of other
projects people hanging out for a few
days asked answering questions hundreds
and hundreds of people coming by this
table and it was very interesting to see
division of people's reaction half the
people there seemed like convinced
enough there even Vince before but we
love you thank you so much O'Keefe s
build everyone's building on top of you
and the other half for people who pretty
much never really been to
before I walked up to the table and said
what what's the piece could you tell me
where about this so it's very very
interesting to see new people coming
into the space and then people very
mature people building mature more
mature solutions on top of this still
nascent early early times in the stack
and and really a lot of support from
from the folks that are building on us
you can see the buffa corn the official
mascot event in full three chlorines
there it was really really amazing venue
as well the sports castle you ever get a
chance to go there very nice please
there is a hackathon main event of the
f-number conference and wouldn't one of
the most important and really just
fantastic parts for our community is
that basically about half of the people
who participated used ipfs either
directly or indirectly through things
like three bucks textile yeah and this
really shows the importance of our
attention and care and presence in the
ether in community and just how
effective we're doing it we're being at
meeting their needs so thanks really a
lot to to pinata and textile and all the
other folks who who showed up and
invested their time and their effort and
conversations with all these random
folks and people who are part of the
community in supporting them and in
building their web three top three
solutions and applications on top of my
PFS
thanks
Thank You G trick that was bang on time
does anyone have any quick questions for
the Dietrich please shout out Dietrich
are there any plans for like a
decentralized COBIT 19 as that was their
home sort of conference coming up this
year for especially for Easter
uh that's a good question we actually
did get poke from where the folks in the
brave community who is organizing an
event just like that basically I think
several days of trainings workshops and
talks around distributed networking so
not specific to aetherium this one I'm
not sure about in the ertharin community
there might be more events like that but
we'll definitely be sharing news about
those people working on strand
decentralized networks for sure and I
think so far that's including people
from ipfs folks from that community
scuttlebutt community so if anyone
watching or listening or here has links
to other events definitely I'm and ciao
or reply on Twitter or comment on
youtube when this is put posted there
that's cool thank you again
okay we'll let's cook anyone because
it's I'm posting so I'm gonna play as
well so I've got a quick lightning talk
in the last five minutes that we have
here so let's do that quickly this way
and to share screen okay here we go okay
do you see my screen
oh do you see a tears yep all right
okay here's my size that's it's a slide
let me just bring out my notes okay here
we are I give this browser sandbox
what is this okay well it's a browser
you can use to surf the Internet
wait okay no biggie so far but imagine
if you could surf in space well you can
now this is the interplanetary file
system browser and it's a peer-to-peer
web browser it's kind of like Beeker
browser if you've heard of that but for
ipfs if you've not heard of bigger
browser you should check it out because
it is a browser that works with that and
it's doing a similar sort of thing I
mean obviously it came first anyway so
you can think of this as kind of a
technology preview of what's possible
when p2p is supported natively in the
browser and so just caveat here it's not
been vetted or proven to be secure in
any way at all and it obviously doesn't
have a lot of the polyfill features that
you see in like Chrome or Firefox
probably because it's about two days old
but the most important point is that
there's no limits there's no limits at
all so we can demonstrate an experiment
without having to work around the same
restrictions that we have when we're
trying to like extend existing browsers
like Chrome or Firefox or ie or whatever
so if we want to use ipfs paths instead
of URLs then we can great if we want to
consider ipfs resources in the secure
context then we can array and if we want
to if we want our web extensions to have
access to low-level tcp UDP or mdns
api's then we can and we can also allow
every website that that we visit to have
access to our IP FS no that's running in
the browser hooray so anyway you get a
picture
alright enough talking so what is this
this is so like my slides are actually
showing in this browser that I'm talking
about which is super cool there's got
tabs and
not there's not a lot of stuff here
basically but you can do you can
navigate to things like you do in a
normal browser because it's over Elsa
you know what to do but you can also
look at ipfs resources so I've got a CID
hast whoa it's our favorite image okay
its lightest favorite image looks like
kind of partial to it I've grown to love
it now like you can look like this
Guardian so slightly freaky but look
it's an IPS and beauty but what's also
kind of way better is if the ipfs
resources are actually like web pages so
you can like look at the octopus blog by
that and like with never getting around
ipfs resources in the browser hooray so
that's that's pretty awesome huh
completely natively so you can even do
like sea ball encoded data so let's
let's try something else
so I've got my command line here and I
should be able to do I need some quotes
I need more quotes for quotes and put
that into ifs okay put that here again
and then I should just be able to paste
this into here hey and it comes up
alright that's great but like what's
even more interesting is if I do
something like ooh okay bear with me
here so if I have like a link to some to
that that thing I can do something like
this
it here we go here we go hang on I could
put some regular data in there as well
like just some data maybe that's
well-formed we'll see put it in I give s
hooray we got a new CI D let's have a
look get that one
so I should be able to pair less there's
even a different time than that doesn't
matter hey there's our data and it's got
a link in it which I'm certain I can
just you know look at that data like
like that but if I just put in slash
link here I should also be able to
access it through the magic of IP OD and
linking and I should also be able to
secure data so just get the data out so
hooray for that that is the ipfs browser
sandbox for experimentation and fun
times and the possibilities of what you
could do in a p2p browser and that's
about all I have to say hmm
let's stop the share okay any quick
questions we're over time now I'm sorry
it's a complete one that's why I really
fit fast when you have seriously the
local resources so you're browsing IP LD
objects though but actually like you had
an IP FS / so is that correct syntax
maybe not but it's alright DFS supports
right now okay way cool how easy is it
gonna be to keep pulling upstream and
keeping that updated so it's it's just
electron under the hood so if I can keep
electron up-to-date then they're doing
that for me
basically whatever gets broken or
changed by the bike Rome is kind of up
for grabs but like the electron API is
meant to be reasonably stable so
hopefully not too much I must stress
that you know building your own browser
is not like something you just pick up
over a weekend and like I realized the
gravity is like just doing that but it's
not it's not so much that I give s or or
I have the time or ability to create a
browser and for it to be used by
millions of people but it's more like
this is what could this is what the
future could be like in browsers and
let's let's experiment and see what we
can do using something like this and
then C be able to show the browser
implementation influences this sort of
thing and and like yeah make it happen
in the future I never quit questions we
are over time now so if you need to go
you can your work at the go
you
all right if there's no more questions
then thank you very much everyone for
coming it's been it's been really fun
and I obviously enjoyed it Lots Lionel
thank you for taking notes and we will
see you next well next week for a new
for a new
ipfs weekly cool it went lightly talks
but would do nightly talks again soon
but thank you again for coming and have
a nice rest of your day
alright bye everyone thanks Alan